# peiji

A bucket-wise quota service.

## Usage

You should use the included Dockerfile (and images generated by it) to run this application.

The following environment variables must be set:
1. `REDIS_URI` should point to a Redis instance, for example: `redis://redis-instance`. At least version 7.0 is required.
1. `CONFIG_FILE_PATH` should be the path to an accessible TOML config file, for example: `/app/config.toml`
1. `LISTEN_IP` should be set to the IP address of the interface to listen for connections on, for example `0.0.0.0` to listen on all interfaces.
1. `LISTEN_PORT` should be set to an available TCP port to listen for connections on, for example `8080`

The application will expose an HTTP service at `<LISTEN_IP>:<LISTEN_PORT>`.

## Configuration

The configuration file should describe the quota limits for each bucket.

The following example config file will allow:
- the `bkt::test-client::global` bucket to be charged 15 times per hour.
- the `bkt::test-client::service-a::read` bucket to be charged 50 times per day.
- the `bkt::other-client::global` bucket to be charged 1250 times per month.

```toml
[[limits]]
bucket = "bkt::test-client::global"
type = "hourly"
freq = 15

[[limits]]
bucket = "bkt::test-client::service-a::read"
type = "daily"
freq = 50

[[limits]]
bucket = "bkt::other-client::global"
type = "monthly"
freq = 1250
```

The available types are `secondly`, `minutely`, `hourly`, `daily`, `weekly`, and `monthly`. 
Note that a `monthly` quota period is always exactly 30 days.

## API

The service exposes the following route:
```
POST /api/v1/buckets/:bucket_id/charges
```
where `:bucket_id` is replaced with the name of a bucket. 

An `application/json` payload is expected with a charge, for example:
```json
{
    "amount": 3
}
```
A bucket may only be charged at most 1000 units at a time. 

The application will respond with one of the following string JSON string payloads:

- `ok` means the charges were applied and there is still available quota in each bucket.
- `slow_down` means the charges were applied, and there is still available quota in each bucket, but at least one bucket is over 90% full for the current period.
- `stop` means the bucket is already full for the current period. The bucket will be blocked for a few seconds to throttle the owner.
- `block` means a request for a bucket is being made after the owner was already warned to `stop`. The bucket is blocked for (at least) one minute. 
